README.md, before:

# 🤖 net_franky

**Use the [Franky library](https://github.com/TimSchneider42/franky) from non-realtime machines.**

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Tests](https://github.com/yblei/net_franky/actions/workflows/scheduled-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/yblei/net_franky/actions/workflows/scheduled-tests.yml)


## 🏗️ How it works

```
┌─────────────┐    RPyC     ┌─────────────┐    libfranka    ┌─────────────┐
│ Your Laptop │ ──────────► │ RT Server   │ ──────────────► │ Franka Robot│
│ (Or Cluster)│             │             │                 │             │
└─────────────┘             └─────────────┘                 └─────────────┘
```


## 🎯 Key Benefits:
- 🔌 **Drop-in replacement** for the franky library with function stubs
- ⚡ **Well proven** - building on the common rpyc library
- 🚀 **Simple** - 5 minutes to get started

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Server Setup (Real-time machine)
```bash
# One-time setup
mkdir ~/net_franky && cd ~/net_franky
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install net-franky[server]
```

### 2. Start server (Run in tmux/screen)
```bash
rpyc_classic -p 18812 --host 0.0.0.0
```

### 3. Client Usage (Your laptop)
```bash
pip install net-franky
```

```python
from net_franky import setup_net_franky
# Connect to remote server
setup_net_franky("server-ip", 18812)

from net_franky.franky import Robot

# Use exactly like local franky
robot = Robot("192.168.1.100")
robot.move_to([0.3, 0.4, 0.5])
```

**That's it!** 🎉 Your robot code now runs remotely.


---

## Only deviation from franky: Wrapper around the robot class
Franky supports the registration of a callback function to a motion. 
This is useful to record trajectories or to stream pose information back for visualization. 
Since this function is called with 1000Hz and the calls are buffered, execution over the network leads to significant delays. 

We therefore provide a pointer to the latest motion callback data in 

```pyton
robot_state, time_step, rel_time, abs_time, control_signal = robot.get_last_callback_data()
```

**Warning:** If you get segmentation faults, make sure you use the same version of python on the server and the client.


## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

Commit message:

Enhance robot setup instructions with CartesianMotion
Updated README to include CartesianMotion and relative dynamics factor.

README.md, after:

# 🤖 net_franky

**Use the [Franky library](https://github.com/TimSchneider42/franky) from non-realtime machines.**

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Tests](https://github.com/yblei/net_franky/actions/workflows/scheduled-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/yblei/net_franky/actions/workflows/scheduled-tests.yml)


## 🏗️ How it works

```
┌─────────────┐    RPyC     ┌─────────────┐    libfranka    ┌─────────────┐
│ Your Laptop │ ──────────► │ RT Server   │ ──────────────► │ Franka Robot│
│ (Or Cluster)│             │             │                 │             │
└─────────────┘             └─────────────┘                 └─────────────┘
```


## 🎯 Key Benefits:
- 🔌 **Drop-in replacement** for the franky library with function stubs
- ⚡ **Well proven** - building on the common rpyc library
- 🚀 **Simple** - 5 minutes to get started

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Server Setup (Real-time machine)
```bash
# One-time setup
mkdir ~/net_franky && cd ~/net_franky
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install net-franky[server]
```

### 2. Start server (Run in tmux/screen)
```bash
rpyc_classic -p 18812 --host 0.0.0.0
```

### 3. Client Usage (Your laptop)
```bash
pip install net-franky
```

```python
from net_franky import setup_net_franky
# Connect to remote server
setup_net_franky("server-ip", 18812)

from net_franky.franky import Robot, CartesianMotion

robot = Robot("10.90.90.1")  # Replace this with your robot's IP

# Let's start slow (this lets the robot use a maximum of 5% of its velocity, acceleration, and jerk limits)
robot.relative_dynamics_factor = 0.05

# Move the robot 20cm along the relative X-axis of its end-effector
motion = CartesianMotion(Affine([0.2, 0.0, 0.0]), ReferenceType.Relative)
robot.move(motion)
```

**That's it!** 🎉 Your robot code now runs remotely.


---

## Only deviation from franky: Wrapper around the robot class
Franky supports the registration of a callback function to a motion. 
This is useful to record trajectories or to stream pose information back for visualization. 
Since this function is called with 1000Hz and the calls are buffered, execution over the network leads to significant delays. 

We therefore provide a pointer to the latest motion callback data in 

```pyton
robot_state, time_step, rel_time, abs_time, control_signal = robot.get_last_callback_data()
```

**Warning:** If you get segmentation faults, make sure you use the same version of python on the server and the client.


## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!
